production guide and remote multi-node tutorial (#158)
kwilteam/docs: docs/node/production-guide.mdx

### Network Bootstrapping

There are two supported ways of bootstapping a node's connection to a network: specifying a "seed" node and "persistent" peers. Both may be used in conjunction with [PEX](#peer-exchange). These are described below.

#### Persistent Peers

The simplest method, particularly for a small new network, is to list known peers to which the node should always attempt to connect. This is done using the peer notation described above.

For example, to specify two remote peers to always connect to on startup, list them as follows:

```toml
[chain.p2p]
persistent_peers = "f664bfc6060231b12421aafbad971a58a27611f8@10.1.2.3:26656,5585aff2fbb0a21a3c4f03e9d82657530af1ce84@10.6.7.8:26656"
```

#### Seeder and Seed nodes

For larger networks, and in particular organically growing networks, special "seed" nodes may be created and specified with the `chain.p2p.seeds` setting.

> Like the persistent peers setting, this is a comma-separated list of nodes. Unlike persistent peers, the connections to these nodes are transient, disconnecting after obtaining a list of their peers.

Reviewer: Should we add that to the section on seeder nodes? E.g.,

```
For larger networks, and in particular organically growing networks, special "seed" nodes may be set up to facilitate node onboarding. To connect to a seed node, configure the `chain.p2p.seeds` setting (using the same `nodeid@ip:port` as the persistent peers
```

```

The resulting genesis file has the chain ID and validators customized, with default values for the rest of the document:

```json title="genesis.json"
{
  "genesis_time": "2024-10-03T19:00:42.192646924Z",
  "chain_id": "prod-chain",
  "initial_height": 1,
  "app_hash": null,
  "activations": null,
  "consensus_params": {
    "block": {
      "max_bytes": 6291456,
      "max_gas": -1,
      "abci_max_bytes": false
    },
    "evidence": {
      "max_age_num_blocks": 100000,
      "max_age_duration": 172800000000000,
      "max_bytes": 1048576
    },
    "validator": {
      "pub_key_types": [
        "ed25519"
      ],
      "join_expiry": 100800
    },
    "votes": {
      "vote_expiry": 14400,
      "max_votes_per_tx": 100
    },
    "abci": {
      "vote_extensions_enable_height": 0
    },
    "migration": {},
    "without_gas_costs": true
  },
  "validators": [
    {
      "pub_key": "8e11018570091d79b6105d5954cbbc4f1570cd3a02df2214b362e7c3f22c0459",
      "power": 1,
      "name": "node0"
    },
    {
      "pub_key": "1e3ab63c62ad165d01627d53c6c4c61e59626ceeeb26653527cf3df18eff7a23",
      "power": 1,
      "name": "node1"
    }
  ]
}
```

> Provide this **same** `genesis.json` file to all node operators.

Reviewer: Note on genesis immutability here?

```suggestion
Provide this **same** `genesis.json` file to all node operators. The genesis file with the initial validators will remain the same for the entire lifetime of the network, even as the network adds new validators.
```

```sh title="node0"
[node0]:~$ kwild -r /data/kwil-node0
```

```sh title="node1"
[node1]:~$ kwild -r /data/kwil-node1
```

Once the nodes connect, the first block will be produced shortly after:

```plain
2024-09-19T12:01:23.443-05:00   info    kwild.cometbft  finalizing commit of block      {"module": "consensus", "height": 1, "hash": "010806C959A3CB3F186C1216745E9C9C22F38F98A8D6C8673848BFF79FBD6C81", "root": "B4D2AE49E40746CB1C5C1F1B89D3B30F4927A566E0E0D7F7EDBC6C5A1F540B18", "num_txs": 0}
2024-09-19T12:01:23.465-05:00   info    kwild.cometbft  finalized block {"module": "state", "height": 1, "num_txs_res": 0, "num_val_updates": 0, "block_app_hash": "5DF6E0E2761359D30A8275058E299FCC0381534545F55CF43E41983F5D4C9456"}
```

Recall that *both* of the validators need to be started and able to communicate before blocks can be created, as discussed in the [Validators section](#validators). If the nodes are unable to connect, look for peer-related errors in the logs, and check your persistent peers settings and firewall rules.

### Adding a New Node

> Now that our network of two validators is running and producing blocks, we will created and synchronize a new node to the network, and once it is synchronized, promote the node to a validator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that our network of two validators is running and producing blocks, we will create and synchronize a new node to the network, and once it is synchronized, promote the node to a validator.
```

#### Starting as a Sentry Node

> Now we will add a third note to the network as a sentry node. Since this node is not a genesis validator, its public key is not included in the genesis file, which is now immutable. The `kwil-admin setup init` command can be used to simultaneously initialize a new node's root directory and generate a new private key.

Reviewer: I think the note on the genesis file's immutability should also be discussed when introducing the genesis file. I will add a suggestion.

:::important
When adding a node to the network, start it as a non-validator / sentry node.
Always completely synchronize the node to the network before attempting to promote it to a validator.
:::

> Like before we will specify the location of the network's `genesis.json` file, the host's external IP address, and one or more persistent peers. However, we will *not* specify a private key path so that a new key is generated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like before, we will specify the location of the network's `genesis.json` file, the host's external IP address, and one or more persistent peers. However, we will *not* specify a private key path so that a new key is generated:
```

```sh title="node2"
[node2]:~$ kwil-admin setup init --genesis prod-chain/genesis.json \
  --chain.moniker "node2" \
  --chain.p2p.external-address "2.3.4.5:26656" --chain.p2p.persistent-peers \
    "2164057e1d8248f42aadb8ef00afcc123180571d@98.76.54.32:26656" \
  --root-dir /data/kwil-node2
Initialized node in /data/kwil-node2
```

We can see the ID of `node2` before starting it:

```sh title="node2"
[node2]:~$ kwil-admin key info --key-file /data/kwil-node2/private_key | grep "Node ID"
Node ID: bd56ce5a93c47b532be71531ff6ed469b341e61f
```

#### Verifying Successful Node Synchronization

Before adding the node as a validator, ensure that `node2` has completely synchronized with the network. You can do this with either the `kwil-admin` tool, or with the public user service using `kwil-cli`.

> Using `kwil-admin node status`, insect the `.sync.best_block_height` and `.sync.syncing` values:

Reviewer 2: Typo with the word "insect" here

```sh title="node2"
[node2]:~$ kwil-admin node status
{
  "node": {
    "chain_id": "prod-chain",
    "name": "node2",
    "node_id": "bd56ce5a93c47b532be71531ff6ed469b341e61f",
    "proto_ver": 8,
    "app_ver": 1,
    "block_ver": 11,
    "listen_addr": "tcp://127.0.0.2:27656",
    "rpc_addr": "tcp://127.0.0.2:26657"
  },
  "sync": {
    "app_hash": "0e0674b0b88abc26cc60da6e64883dfef802f3431f19296b88c8bc1db8f4f4ae",
    "best_block_hash": "1d5a4ef85927dce3c90168e89fdfb32219c5c95bb5ed3332eb69e20bbe7346da",
    "best_block_height": 109,
    "best_block_time": "2024-10-03T18:01:38.585-05:00",
    "syncing": false
  },
  "validator": {
    ...
  },
  "app": null
}
```

Ensure that the node is no longer syncing (catching up) with the network and that the best block height is within a couple blocks of the network's known height.

Use `kwil-cli utils chain-info` to query the height of any node with its RPC service exposed:

```sh
$ kwil-cli utils chain-info --provider "http://98.76.54.32:8484"
Chain ID: prod-chain
Height: 109
Hash: 1d5a4ef85927dce3c90168e89fdfb32219c5c95bb5ed3332eb69e20bbe7346da
```

> Compare the output of that command with the result from `node2` to ensure the new node is keeping up.

Reviewer: Nit:

```suggestion
Compare the output of that command with the result from `node2` to ensure the new node has completed syncing.
```

Author: Will rephrase this, but "completed syncing" doesn't send the right message IMO.  There's a initial block download e.g. catch-up on startup, but a nodes is continually syncing/staying in sync with the network and that's what we want to observe

Reviewer: Maybe: "is in sync with the rest of the network" ?

TxHash: cab4b66d12cd6ecee256ba73dd9500a3ea7b21ba03bd38d5db7701268a0f8ecb
```

Once the approval transactions are mined, `node2` will become part of the validator set:

```sh
$ kwil-admin validators list
Current validator set:
  0. {pubkey = 8e11018570091d79b6105d5954cbbc4f1570cd3a02df2214b362e7c3f22c0459, power = 1}
  1. {pubkey = 1e3ab63c62ad165d01627d53c6c4c61e59626ceeeb26653527cf3df18eff7a23, power = 1}
  2. {pubkey = 7c02692ed4e1f165791b43742274edb4f9587f6da02d54a0c111386b7110bb64, power = 1}
```

On the block where the final approval transaction was mined, the `kwild` logs for `node2` will display:

```plain
{"level":"info","ts":1727997606.6760225,"logger":"kwild.cometbft","msg":"finalized block","module":"state","height":291,"num_txs_res":1,"num_val_updates":1,"block_app_hash":"F67E090714D70095DB4DF0EF3BF592A8E60FEC0CEEE58B5FB4D55CBD92E8BC40"}
{"level":"info","ts":1727997606.6823015,"logger":"kwild.cometbft","msg":"updates to validators","module":"state","updates":"2EA4B9CA4A6FCBAF5102E4C8AB335D785F5D4772:1"}
{"level":"info","ts":1727997606.6865957,"logger":"kwild.listener-manager","msg":"Node is a validator and caught up with the network, starting listeners"}
```

> The node is now a validator.  Keep it running and monitor it's health.

Reviewer: Do we have any documentation on how to monitor the node's health?

Author: Good point, we only have the newly added above section "Verifying Successful Node Synchronization".  Perhaps we could have a separate page?

Also I just noticed "it's" used incorrectly here, again.  Fixing that.

> The node is now a validator.  Keep it running and monitor it's health.

Author: I'm realizing that this document entirely neglects to mention version considerations.  From current Slack discussions right now, I think it is worth mentioning something along the lines of :

> Between "major" kwil releases, the application's state machine logic generally changes, so this is accompanied by a bump to the "app protocol version", which is that 0 -> 1  change you see in the block header.
> During the developement cycle (changes on main branch between releases) there are continual changes, so in a production environment where the network is not disposable, only release versions (or release-v0.x branches) would be run.  The protocol version is there to signal when there is different application logic (e.g. execution rules) that make the different versions incompatible on the same network.
> But if you had a network that had been running say v0.8 for months and wanted to upgrade to v0.9, this would involve a migration.

Reviewer: Do you think this is needed in the production deployment guide? Or in an upgrading guide?
